# SIGIR eCOM 2022 Data Challenge Dataset

## Overview

Farfetch is hosting the 2022 SIGIR eCom Data Challenge and this repository contains utility scripts and the dataset,
which are freely available for research purposes (see below).

Due to a chaotic product life cycle, where a product could quickly
become unavailable, customers struggle to discover relevant items that
fit well into their lifestyle. This is particularly relevant here at
Farfetch. So, providing good recommendations is a driving factor for improving
the customer experience.

In this context, a particularly challenging application of recommender
systems is to recommend not one but a set of items that appear both
visually compatible and functionally irredundant. In other words, how
to recommend or generate an entire outfit.

## The challenge

The main goal of this challenge is to be able to generate outfits for
each individual product. This is a particularly challenging task, as the
patterns that make an acceptable outfit are really complex. Most of the
properties that make products suitable to belong to the same outfit
typically do not exist as product metadata. Can a floral short dress be
paired with white sandals and a yellow tote bag? The answer is: ”I need
to see the products first”. In fashion, it is the intrinsic visual
details and patterns of each product in an outfit that will determine
its quality.

Here we are proposing a simple version of this task, that is, instead of
building an outfit from scratch the participants are asked to complete an
outfit with one product drawn from a pre defined product set. This emulates
the widely known NLP task of ”Fill in the Blank”, that consists in predicting what is
the missing item of a senquence (or set) of items, given a list of candidates.
This task represents a good approximation of the original problem, as a
model that is capable of understanding what should be the stylish characteristics
of the missing product of an outfit can be easily adapted to the generation of full outfits.

Farfetch is the leading platform for online luxury fashion shopping, with the biggest
catalogue of luxury items in the World with more than 3 million products
and more than 10 thousand brands and high-end designers. For this
challenge, the participants will have access to a subset of this cataloge,
composed not only by real outfits produced by stylists and fashion
experts, but also, product images and metadata.

## License

The dataset is available for research and educational purposes, according to
our [Terrms and conditions](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/1721/evaluation)
in the submission platform. Usage of the data implies the acceptance of these Terms And Conditions.
After the challange, we will release a copy of this dataset with Terms And Conditions allowing a fair usage of the data.

## Dataset

[Download Link](https://storage.googleapis.com/sigir-challenge/farfet_outfits.zip)

This dataset is generated by Farfetch and provided to the
participants in a ready to use manner access to outfits, product images and metadata.

### 1 - Item’s metadata (product_attributes.parquet)

A csv table composed by 300,000 products with the following columns:

    product_id: A unique identifier for each product
    product_family: The product family in the family / category / subcategory tree
    product_category: The product category in the family / category / subcategory tree
    product_sub_category: The product sub category in the family / category / subcategory tree
    product_gender: The indicated gender for the product
    product_main_color: The most common color present in the product
    product_second_color: The second most common color present in the product
    product_brand: The brand of the product
    product_materials: A list with the materials the product was built.
    product_short_description: A textual short description of the product.
    product_long_description: A textual long description of the product.
    product_attributes: A list of objects. Each object specifies an attribute type and value
    product_highlights: Additional information about the product
    product_image_path: The relative path of the product's main image

### 2 - Item’s images (images folder)

Each product will have a single image with the item photographed with a frontal view
in a white background. The images do not contain any people. In the item's metadata there is a column called "
product_image_path" that can be used to get the image from this folder

### 3 - Fashion outfits (outfits.parquet)

Table with 240,000 outfits. Each row consists of a single outfit with the following
columns:

    outfits_id: An id for the outfit
    products: A list of product_id that form the outfit

This corresponds to a subset of outfits manually built by Farfetch stylists and fashion experts
This dataset is split into a train and test set with a random sample of 80/20 of outfits.

### 4 - Validation and test outfits (validation.parquet and test.parquet)

Each phase of the challenge contains an expected answer for the FITB task.
The input for this task is provided as a table with the following columns:

    outfits_id: An id for the outfit
    incomplete_outfit: A list of product_id that form the outfit
    candidates: A list of product_id in wich one product_id is complets the incomplete_outfit

### 5 - Validation and test expected outfits (validation_gt.parquet and test_gt.parquet)

After the end of the challenge the expected answers for the missing item
will be added to the dataset. The format of validation (used in dev
phase) and test (used to perform the final leaderboard) files are:

    outfits_id: An id for the outfit
    missing_product: The product_id that completes the outfit

## How to Start

Download the dataset and unzip it in your local machine. To verify that all is well, you can run the in baseline and
evaluation folders.

Please remember that usage of this dataset implies acceptance of the Terms And Conditions: you agree to not use the
dataset for any other purpose than what is stated in the Terms and Conditions, nor attempt to reverse engineer or
de-anonymise the dataset by explicitly or implicitly linking the data to any person, brand or legal entity.
Contacts

If you still have any questions about our challenge, please directly contact the challenge
organisers: [farfetch.outfits.challenge@outlook.com](mailto:farfetch.outfits.challenge@outlook.com)

## Acknowledgments

The authors of the paper and organizers are:

- [Luis Baia](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luís-baía-031566b3/) - Farfetch
- [Eder Martins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ederfmartins/) - Farfetch
- [Vanessa Marinho](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vanessaqmarinho/) - Farfetch
- [Felipe Viegas](https://www.linkedin.com/in/felipe-viegas-449a7651/) - Farfetch
- [Ana Silvia](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anasilviacsilva/) - Farfetch
- [Diogo Gonçalves](https://www.linkedin.com/in/diogoncalves/) - Farfetch
- [Tiago Otto](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiagoottorodrigues/) - Farfetch

The authors wish to thank the entire Farfetch's legal team, for supporting our research and believing in this data
sharing initiative.

## How to Cite our Work

If you use this dataset, please cite our work:

```
@inproceedings{FarfetchSIGIR2022,
author = {Baia, Luis and Martins, Eder and Goncalves, Diogo and Marinho, Vanessa and Viegas, Felipe and Silva, Ana and Otto, Tiago},
title = {SIGIR 2022 E-Commerce Workshop Data Challenge},
year = {2022},
booktitle = {SIGIR eCom 2022}
}
```
